R12 – CORRECT GRAMMAR 
Definition: 
Use correct grammar. 
Elaboration: 
We interpret language based on the rules of grammar.  Incorrect grammar leads to ambiguity and 
clouds understanding.  This is especially true when the recipient of the need statement or 
requirement statement is working in a second language relying on specific rules of grammar.  If 
these rules are not followed, that person may misinterpret the meaning of the need statement or 
requirement statement. 
Incorrect use of grammar may make the true intent unclear resulting in an incorrect requirement 
and thus make it difficult to verify the SOI meets the intent of the requirement. 
Care must be taken when translating need statements and requirement statements from one 
language to another and when sentence structure differs depending on the language in which the 
Guide to Writing Requirements  79 
 
 
INCOSE-TP-2010-006-04| VERS/REV:4  |  1 July 2023   
original need or requirement statement was written.  Punctuation varies from language to 
language and even between dialects of a given language.   
Be cautious when need statements and requirement statements must be translated.  An 
interesting exercise is to translate a requirement statement from one language to another and 
translate the result back to the original language. 
Many word processing applications are capable of applying a set of grammar rules based on a 
set of built-in rules that are selectable.  When using an application specific set of grammar rules, 
project-specific grammar items may be flagged as incorrect as they may not be applicable to the 
project’s use of grammar. Therefore, the application grammar checking can be regarded as a 
project-specific aspect. Many applications allow the user to “turn off” or “ignore” grammar rules 
that do not apply to the project. 
See also R4 - Define terms. 
 
Examples: 
Unacceptable: The Weapon_System shall storing the location of all ordnance.   
[This is unacceptable because the grammatical error leads to uncertainty about the meaning.] 
Improved: The Weapon_System shall store the location of all Ordnance.   
[Note that “Ordnance” must be defined in the glossary to be explicit about the types of weapons 
and ammunition. Also, where the location is to be stored and the format of the data, must be 
addressed. The action “store” needs to be further evaluated to determine if that is an 
appropriate action (verb) for the Weapon_System vs a user interacting with the 
Weapon_System as discussed in R3.  Additionally, to be complete any specific performance 
measures and conditions should be included within the requirement statement.] 
 
Unacceptable: When in the Active_State, the Record_Subsystem shall display each of the 
Names of the Line_Items, without obscuring the User_ID per <Display Standard xyz>. 
[This is unacceptable because the grammatical error involving the inappropriate placement of 
“each of”—it is most likely that a Line_Item has only one name.] 
Improved: When in the Active_State, the Record_Subsystem shall display on <Display Device> 
the Name of each Line_Item, without obscuring the User_ID per <Display Standard XYZ.>.  
[This is acceptable the ambiguity has been addressed.  The requirement is now more complete 
in that it references where the information is to be display and the standard to be used 
concerning the display of the information. If there are any performance measures that apply, 
they would also need to be addressed.] 
 
Unacceptable: The <corporate website> shall only use Approved_Fonts. 
[This is unacceptable because it mandates that the website shall only use the designated 
fonts—that is, it is not expected to perform any other function except to use those fonts. This is 
clearly not what is meant but becomes ambiguous by the inappropriate grammar and the 
incorrect placement of the word “only”. What is most likely meant is that the only fonts to be 
used are the approved fonts defined in the organization’s display standard.] 
Improved: The <corporate website> shall display information using Approved_Fonts defined in 
<Display Standard xyz>. 
Guide to Writing Requirements  80 
 
 
INCOSE-TP-2010-006-04| VERS/REV:4  |  1 July 2023   
[This is better because the ambiguity has been addressed.  To be acceptable, any conditions 
and qualifying clauses would also need to be added.  If the organization has a standard for 
displaying information that addresses acceptable fonts, font sizes, colors, spacing, human 
factors, etc., the requirement should refer to that standard.] 
 
