R13 – CORRECT SPELLING 
Definition: 
Use correct spelling. 
Elaboration: 
Incorrect spelling can lead to ambiguity and confusion.  Some words may sound the same but, 
depending on the spelling, will have entirely different meaning.  For example, “red” versus “read”, 
“ordinance” versus “ordnance”, or “brake” versus “break”.  
In other cases, the word could be spelled the same, but have a different meaning or the meaning 
changes depending on the context of which it is used.  For example, "clear windscreen" and 
"clear the screen” contain 2 different meanings for "clear", one is an adjective, and the other a 
verb.  In addition, the word “sound” could be ambiguous as it can be a noun, a verb, adverb, or 
adjective.  In these cases, a spell checker cannot distinguish the meaning nor context not finding 
these kinds of errors. 
A requirement that has spelling errors is not correct (C8) and may not be Verifiable/Validatable 
(C7). 
In addition to misspelling, this rule also refers to the proper use of: 
• Capital letters in acronyms: avoid “SYRD” and “SyRD” in the same set of needs and 
requirements. 
• Capital letters in other non-acronyms concepts: avoid “Requirements Working Group” and 
“Requirements working group” in the same set of needs and requirements. 
• Proper use of hyphenation: “non-functional” versus “nonfunctional.” Often hyphenation is used 
when two related words are used as adjectives but is not used when used as a noun. 
• Proper form for compound words.  Compound words are when two or more words combine to 
form a new single word or a phrase that acts like a single word. There are three different 
types of compound words in grammar: open compound words with spaces between the words 
(ice cream), closed compound words with no spaces (firefighter), and hyphenated compound 
words (up to date).  The project team needs to agree on how specific compound words are to 
be formed, define them in the project glossary, and be consistent in their use. 
Many word processing applications are capable of doing a spelling check as text is entered based 
on a built-in dictionary and a user defined dictionary.  When using an application specific spelling 
dictionary, project-specific vocabulary items or terms may be flagged as misspelled words as they 
may not be included in the application’s internal core dictionary. Therefore, the spellchecking can 
be regarded as a project-specific aspect. If practical, these terms should be added to a user 
defined dictionary within the application, if allowed. 
 
Examples: 
Unacceptable: The Weapon_System shall store the location of each ordinance.   
[This is unacceptable because the word “ordinance” means regulation or law.  It is unlikely that 
the Weapon_System is interested in the location of ordinance (regulations).  In the context of a 
Guide to Writing Requirements  81 
 
 
INCOSE-TP-2010-006-04| VERS/REV:4  |  1 July 2023   
weapon system, what the authors meant to use is "ordnance" as in weapons and ammunition, 
not “ordinance”.] 
Improved: The Weapon_System shall store the Location of each Ordnance.   
[Note that “Location” and “Ordnance” must be defined in the glossary or data dictionary to be 
explicit about the types of weapons and ammunition.  The action “store” needs to be further 
evaluated to determine if that is an appropriate action (verb) for the Weapon_System vs a user 
interacting with the Weapon_System as discussed in R3.  Additionally, to be complete any 
specific performance measures and conditions should be included within the requirement 
statement.] 
 
