2.4 C3 - Unambiguous 
Definition: 
Need statements and requirement statements must be stated such that their intent is clear and 
can be interpreted in only one way by all the intended audiences. 
 
Rationale: 
A need statement and a requirement statement must lend itself to a single interpretation of intent.   
These statements are effectively an agreement between two parties communicating intent from 
one to the other and forming the basis of verification and validation that the intent was met. An 
agreement is difficult to enact unless both parties are clear on the exact obligation.   
As shown in Figure 11, the intent of a need or requirement must be understood, in the same way, 
by all intended audiences across the lifecycle.  
  
Figure 11: Needs and Requirements Understood in the Same Way 
Ambiguity leads to interpretations of a need or requirement not intended by the author leading to 
problems such schedule slips, budget overruns, or a failure of the SOI to pass system validation 
and not be accepted for its intended use; which could result in litigation and financial loss. 
An ambiguous need or requirement is neither Correct (C8) nor Verifiable/Validatable (C7).   
 
Guidance: 
When writing a need or requirement statement, ask whether it could be interpreted more than one 
way.  It is common for people to interpret words based on their own set of filters, biases, and 
assumptions.  For example, if a person states: “I need a cream for wrinkles.” - what was the 
intended meaning of the word “for” – to “give”, “remove”, or “prevent”?   If someone goes to a 
barber and states: “I need my hair shorter – I want it over my ears.” – what was the intended 
meaning of the word “over” - “cover” or “above”? 
Often, people will use common words by themselves without using a modifier that helps the 
receiver understand the context, and thus the intended meaning of the word used. It is a bad 
practice to assume that the meaning of the words used are understood the same way by all 
intended audiences. 
(Note: Refer to the NRM, Section 2.10, on a more detailed discussion on effective 
communications.) 
Customers
 Users
 Providers Verifiers/
 Validators
 Original figure created by L. Wheatcraft. Usage granted per the INCOSE Copyright Restrictions. All other rights reserved.
Guide to Writing Requirements  42 
 
 
INCOSE-TP-2010-006-04| VERS/REV:4  |  1 July 2023   
For needs, ask whether the need is Validatable (C7), that is, whether it is stated in such a way 
that sufficient evidence can be obtained that the need has been met based on the wording of the 
need statement without having to interpret the stakeholder intent or make assumptions of that 
intent.  
For a requirement ask whether the requirement is Verifiable/Validatable (C7), that is, whether it is 
stated in such a way that sufficient evidence can be obtained that the requirement has been met 
based on the wording of the requirement without having to interpret the intended meaning or 
make assumptions as to the intended meaning.  
It is useful for the stakeholders who are involved in the implementation of the needs and resulting 
requirements or system verification and system validation to be involved in the definition, review, 
and baseline of the needs and resulting requirements.  When they see needs or requirements 
that are ambiguous and the stakeholder’s intent is not clearly communicated, they can identify the 
issue and suggest an alternate, unambiguous wording of the need or requirement statement.   
As a minimum, it is recommended that the need or requirement owner(s) along with the 
development team and those involved in system verification and system validation do a 
walkthrough of the need set or requirement set to ensure that needs and requirements are 
understood as intended, individually and as a set.  As discussed in Section 1.9, this activity is 
referred to as needs validation or requirement validation. 
Because a need expression or requirement expression includes both the statement and a set of 
attributes, attributes can be used to help address any ambiguities that may still exist even in the 
most carefully worded need statement or requirement statement.   
Due to the limitations of language, it may prove difficult to completely remove all ambiguity.  In 
this case, the use of the Attribute, A1- Rationale, can be used to include contextual information to 
better understand the reason and source of the requirement and may provide additional insight of 
the intent, helping to reduce ambiguity and provide some increased ability to apply the 
“reasonable person” test.  Supporting information or commentary on how and why the 
requirement was formed can be included in the rationale.  By including rationale in each need and 
requirement expression, readers do not have to assume this information—it is clearly stated for 
all to see and understand in the same way. 
In addition, Attribute, A39 - Additional Comments, may be used to add additional information 
beyond what was included in the rationale.  Additional comments can be used to document 
possible issues with the need or design input requirement, any conflicts, status of negotiations, 
actions, design notes, implementation notes, etc.  Further, evaluation and prototyping of the 
system concept may have identified important guidelines for the implementation of the need or 
requirement.  This information may be useful as the need or requirement is being reviewed and 
serves as a place to document information not addressed by other attributes. 
Note that the information contained within the attributes is meant to be informative in a 
contractual sense (not normative), because of this, the word 'shall' must not be used in any of the 
text contained in attributes to help ensure the amplifying information is not inadvertently 
interpreted to be an additional requirement. 
When text only makes it difficult to communicate the intent of complex requirement, the inclusion 
of a diagram or trace to a model may help remove the ambiguity.  See R23. 
Ambiguity of individual need and requirement statements can be assessed during early system 
verification and design verification activities discussed in the NRM and GtVV.